hey Harris admin is your muscle building
coach Lee Hayward with another ask me
video QA and today I've got a question
from Dennis and he writes hailey just a
quick question about leg training I'm
starting a three-day training split
similar to the one you posted up on
YouTube and I was wondering if working
legs twice a week will help them to grow
quicker I was thinking of doing a heavy
leg workout for one day any lighter leg
work up for the second leg day any help
or advice would be great love your
videos and keep up the good work alright
thanks for that question Dennis and you
are right when you increase the
frequency of your body prep training you
can help to speed up the whole growth
process and this is a strategy that I
like to use for stubborn body parts and
areas that you want to specialize in and
someone more popular training programs
such as the blaster bench program and
the blaster biceps program the basis of
those programs is higher frequency
workouts now the thing is when you
increase the frequency of the training
session you need to balance it out with
also reducing the training volume
because you just can't keep increasing
the same volume and simply be doubling
up on the training frequency because
eventually that's gonna lead to burnout
and overtraining but if you can
manipulate the volume and increase the
frequency you can speed up the growth
process or get a little mini growth
spurts multiple times a week rather than
just one big workout per week which is
what a lot of people do so
that definitely can work and when it
comes to leg training one of the best
programs that uses higher frequency
training but lower volume training is
the 20 reps squatter team now I'm not
sure if you're familiar with this one or
not but this program is an old school
programs been around for most of the
20th century and it works like
gangbusters for packing on muscular body
weight and how it works is you start off
each training session and work your way
up to one all-out set of 20 reps squats
and that is the foundation of your
workout and then after that you go on
with the rest of your training session
so each workout which will be done three
days a week you would start with the
squats now it's low volume because
you're really only doing one working set
of squats but it's the frequency of the
squats and the progressive overload from
work of the work of workout that's going
to really add up and help you to make
some impressive game to this program now
I actually had a video posted up it's an
older video but it shows the complete 20
reps quaver team and I'm going to post a
link to that video in the description
below so you can check that one out and
implement that in with the workout
program that you're putting together for
yourself and I think you'll be
pleasantly surprised by the results I'm
adding 20 reps squats to your training
program so again give it a try and leave
me any comments or feedback in the video
description below or video description
in the comment section below and I will
check you down there in the meantime
have yourself a fantastic day and I'll
talk to you soon take care over now
you